the conflation of anti-zionism with
anti-Semitism is provoking push back
from a growing number of young Jewish
Americans anti-zionist Jews have formed
a major part of the anti-war protests
that have taken place across the US and
they are not taking kindly to being
accused of racism towards their own
Community given the importance of us
support for Israel it is a movement that
could prove pivotal Simone Zimmerman is
one of the leaders of that movement the
co-founder of if not not now an advocacy
group that aims to sway American Jews
against the occupation she also
campaigns against anti-Semitism and its
weaponization by the pro-israel lobby
but she wasn't always on that side of
the
argument Simone Zimmerman was raised a
committed Zionist her transition away
from that way of thinking forms the core
of an award-winning documentary called
israelism that was released last year I
wanted to know answers from within my
own community and nobody could answer
those questions for
me how is it that I am like the best the
Jewish Community has to offer I've been
through all the trainings all the
programs and I don't know what the
occupation is I I don't know what the
settlements are Simone Zimmerman joins
us now from New York City Simone thank
you for speaking with us here today at
the listening Post in that documentary
israelism a Core theme was your personal
turn away from Z iism to start with talk
about your former self the pro-israel
activist what did you believe at the
time and how did you come to disbelieve
it well I grew up with a narrative about
Israel that was incredibly romantic and
frankly simplistic um I grew up with a
idea of my commitment to Israel as
Inseparable from my Judaism I grew up
spending a lot of time in Israel and I
plann to go be an Israel Advocate on my
college campus we often said that that
was the other Battlefield you know the
college campus is the battlefield for
Israel's legitimacy and so I wanted to
go help tell the truth about Israel uh
now that that all got quite complicated
for me when I began actually meeting
students on my campus who had different
life experiences related to Israel in
different ways I began reading texts by
both Palestinian and Israeli historians
who complicated the story of 1948 I
learned about the neba the mass
displacement of palestin
in 1948 that led to the founding of the
state
and very quickly um that narrative was
was complicated and and shattered for me
and you're not the only one because
there's there's been a broader shift
amongst young Jewish Americans towards
opposition to or at least ambivalence
about Zionism and we've heard those
pro-israel lobbyists say you know we've
lost the kids do you think they'll ever
get those kids back for many Jews
Zionism has meant a movement that led to
the
safety that offered an Escape Route and
safety for our grandparents generation
that's true in my own family story now
it's also true that Zionism has always
meant Mass displacement and oppression
and Injustice for the Palestinian people
for young American Jews they're asking
these questions in the same prism that
they're asking other questions about you
know racial Injustice in America that
what young people are seeing on our
phones right now these live stream
Horrors 24 24 people were killed
here 22 of them are women and children
the bombings the
starvation the utter Horrors being
committed against children and and we're
seeing it on our phone live stream To Us
by young people who you know look like
us who have the same aspirations as we
do and we want the same rights and
Justice and freedom for these people and
and the the the basic ability to live
freely and safely that we have and I
think seeing
that alongside seeing these videos of
Israeli soldiers celebrating uh their
war crimes and laughing and desecrating
the homes that Palestinians have fled in
this moment in which they are
responsible for the largest displacement
of Palestinians since the nakba that is
prompting a really dramatic Reckoning
among not just a younger generation but
I think young people are experiencing in
a particular way because we see it in
such such unfiltered
means a lot of Israel's supporters in
the US uh we've seen it they've done it
in the media they've taken to labeling
anti- Zionism as pure anti-Semitism what
do you make of that argument that
conflation is there a over there how do
you see it look anti-Semitism can show
up anywhere along the political Spectrum
just like racism and sexism I think the
real question is you know what are the
animating values of a movement and a
misrepresentation that we keep seeing
consistently is the tarnishing of the
movement for Palestinian Freedom they
see something on Tik Tock and they're
like Israel bad and Hamas good and they
go out and they start shouting at Jews
it's a movement whose core motives and
goals are to stop this Mass killing in
Gaza to protect Palestinian life to
demand Justice and freedom for the
Palestinian people and we see time and
again the the misrepresentation of that
movement with these false charges of
anti-Semitism in ways that first of all
are such an unfair and Grave attack on
this movement and in addition they
create deep confusion about what
anti-Semitism is and it actually makes
it harder to identify anti-Semitism and
be able to root it out you also do
important work combating anti-Semitism
and anti-jewish hate has been on the
rise since October 7th is the media
discussion around that topic
anti-Semitism doing anything to help
people understand what it really is and
to fight
it yeah well I think that why it's so
important to actually talk about this
conflation of Jews and Israel and to do
our best to separate the two you know
the so-called leading uh organization
that is often the the leading uh Source
cited in media around this is the
Anti-Defamation League but the ADL
actually has a a long history of being
opposed to Justice movements most
significantly um the movement for
Palestinian freedom and in the latest
statistics that they've released and and
this is not a new phenomenon post
October 7th but they've certainly
escalated in this campaign they include
in their um list of anti-Semitic
incidents protests led by Jewish
organizations and Jewish individuals so
how can we get a true picture of the
state of anti-Semitism in this country
when the leading organization
responsible for telling us about it does
not have reliable data I think that's
deeply dangerous um for Jewish people
and I also think it's important to say
that you know we are seeing increased
numbers of Jews in the movement for a
ceasefire for Palestinian freedom and I
believe that those thousands of Jews who
are out in the streets not just in the
US but around the world are helping
fight anti-Semitism because we are
breaking that conflation between Jews
and Israel's devastating assault on the
Gaza
there's documented evidence that
whenever there is escalated violence in
Israel Palestine Jews around the world
who have nothing to do with that
violence often are on unfairly on the
receiving end of that blowback from
individuals who Target Jews out of their
rage at Israel last one for you as a
result of the activism the exposure you
got from that documentary you've become
something of a leader within the Jewish
Community how hopeful are you that this
movement that you're part of American
Jews against Israel's
occupation that something meaningful can
be achieved in the coming years are we
at an inflection
point you know whenever I get asked this
question about hope it feels important
to say first of all that it's it's hard
to answer that question in a moment in
which Israel has reduced the majority of
the Gaza Strip to Rebel in which we are
living through the the largest attack on
Palestinian life and displacement and
destruction since the NBA of 1948 I feel
deeply afraid for Palestinians right now
and for also for Israeli Jews who are
deeply endangered living this ongoing
situation in addition to that in this
moment of such profound darkness and
tragedy it is incredibly powerful to see
so many young people waking up asking
questions young and old people joining
these movements for justice and freedom
for all people if I just think about
college campuses you
know I got to participate in Shabbat and
Passover at the Gaza solidarity
encampment at Columbia
University and it was really moving to
me to see all of these young Jews there
in the encampment grappling with the
histories that they've been taught
having hard conversations with their
friends with their community members
that to me is hopeful these movements
for Justice and for accountability are
hopeful because without that the the the
red lines that we are seeing moved
farther and farther away from any
semblance of democracy and respect for
human life um that is very scary and so
seeing students rising up and demanding
that is a path to an alternative Simone
Zimmerman thank you so much for taking
the time to talk to us thank you the
Turning tide of Young Americans like
Simone Zimmerman away from support for
Israel and Zionist ideology could prove
to be one of the major developments in
the history of Israel's occupation of
Palestine but it is only the latest act
in this Century long story one that
cannot be understood without at least a
basic understanding of Zionism news
outlets have a big part to play in that
we need to talk about Zionism explain
how it relates to Israel's past its
present and its ongoing ethnic cleansing
of Gaza
its war crimes against Palestinians
we'll see you next time here at the
listening post